=head1 NAME

Uttu::Handler

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This documents the interface expected for an Uttu content handler.

=head1 METHODS

Uttu calls the methods in the following order:

  Uttu::Handler::class -> init();
  my $h = Uttu::Handler::class -> config($cfg, $param);
  $h -> file_to_path($u->config->global_function_set_base, $file);
  $h -> handle_request($u, $r);

=over 4

=item init

  Uttu::Handler::class -> init();

This method should initialize the configuration process using C<Uttu ->
define( )> as well as load any required Perl modules.  Configuration should
be able to proceed after this returns with no errors if the configuration
file is correct.

=item config

  Uttu::Handler::class -> config($cfg, $param);

This method should create a new C<Uttu::Handler::class> object properly
configured to handle requests based on the AppConfig object (C<$cfg>) and
the Apache::Param object ($param).

=item handle_request

  $self -> handle_request($u, $r);

This method actually hands the request off to the proper module.  C<$u> is
the controlling Uttu object and C<$r> is the familiar
C<Apache-E<gt>request> object.

=item file_to_path

  $self -> file_to_path($function_set_base, $file);

Given a relative filename, return the absolute filename.  This should take
into account any search paths defined by the content handler.

=back 4

=head1 AUTHOR

James G. Smith <jsmith@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2002 Texas A&M University.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

$ Id: $
