=head1 NAME

Uttu::Manual - User Guide and Reference Manual for Uttu

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the manual for Uttu.  Uttu is a web application environment.

This manual is designed for both the programmer making use of the
environment and the programmer needing to extend it by writing frameworks
or function sets.  Implementation-specific information is available in the
documentation for each module.  A complete list of modules is provided at
the end of this document.

The manual is broken down into:

=over 4

=item L<Uttu::Manual::Intro|Uttu::Manual::Intro>

Introduction to Uttu and a discussion of how all the pieces fit together.

=item L<Uttu::Manual::Framework|Uttu::Manual::Framework>

How frameworks work and how to write one.

=item L<Uttu::Manual::FunctionSet|Uttu::Manual::FunctionSet>

How function sets work and how to write one.

=item L<Uttu::Manual::Cookbook|Uttu::Manual::Cookbook>

Recipes for Uttu usage.

=item L<Uttu::Manual::Hacking|Uttu::Manual::Hacking>

Looking at the guts of Uttu.


=head1 MODULE LISTING


=head2 General Modules

=over 4

=item L<Uttu|Uttu>

=item L<Uttu::Framework|Uttu::Framework>

=item L<Uttu::L10N|Uttu::L10N>

=item L<Uttu::Tools|Uttu::Tools>

=back



=head2 Installation


=over 4

=item L<Uttu::MakeMaker|Uttu::MakeMaker>

=back



=head2 Content Handlers


=over 4

=item L<Uttu::Handler::mason|Uttu::Handler::mason>

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

James Smith <jgsmith@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2002 Texas A&M University.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.
